---
layout: post
title: Overview of projects
date: 2024-05-01 00:32:13
description: This is an overview of different projects I worked on for various courses
tags: physics coding 
categories: personal
tabs: true
---

In this post you can discover the various projects I made for my master courses. I'll provide a small description. Most projects involved a lot of coding as well. When I find the time I will make the code publicly available as well, and add it here to my github repositories! Feel free to use it, fork if you want amd don't hesitate to send pull-requests. 

## Master Courses


Select one of the courses that sound interesting!

{% tabs log  %}

{% tab log Computational Methods %}

This course deals mainly with numerical methods to solving partial differential equations. We did two projects within this context: simulations using the parallelized code MPI-AMRVAC to simulate the hydrodymics equations in the context of protostellar jet outflows. The second project is more technical and involves writing a python code capable of solving the 1D Riemann problem in in the case of isothermal hydrodynamics. 

{% endtab %}

{% tab log Gravitational Waves %}

Part of this introductory course to gravitational wave physics is the final project, for which we were given a particular assignement. Mine was about numerical relativity, more specifically the (extended) conformal thin-sandwich approach. This is a particular choice of initial conditions for the reformulation of GR as a Cauchy (i.e. initial value) problem. Using this construction one can construct physically relevant initial conditions that can serve as initial conditions for the differential equations governing the metric behaviour of this system. 

{% endtab %}

{% tab log Monte Carlo Methods %}

This course deals with various Monte Carlo methods, with different grades of sophistication. Starting from different random number generators we go on to diffent techniques to simulate the Ising model. Methods include the Metropolis-Hastings, hit-and-miss, heat bath algorithms, as well as more advanced samplers such as parallel tempering, umbrella sampling and the treatment of critical slowing down.

{% endtab %}

{% tab log Advanced Quantum Field Theory %}

For this course we had to choose a subtopic within this vast field. I opted for Lattice field theory, drawn by its strong toes to computationa physics. I discussed how renormalization is treated for a scalar field and for a fermion field, as well as compared the overall structure to that of the Ising model. It is suprising to see so many concepts from statistical mechnanics return

{% endtab %}

{% endtabs %}

